docs: initial migration guide for protractor (#3916)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: content/guides/migrating-to-cypress/protractor.md

  })
})
```

<Badge type="success">After: Cypress</Badge>

```js
describe('Authorization Tests', () => {
  it('allows the user to signup for a new account', () => {
    cy.visit('/signup')
    cy.get('#email-field').type('user@email.com')
    cy.get('#confirm-email-field').type('user@email.com')
    cy.get('#password-field').type('testPassword1234')
    cy.get('button').contains('Create new account').click()

    cy.url().should('include', '/signup/success')
  })
})
```

## Benefits of Using Cypress

As many developers can attest to, end-to-end testing is one of those things that they know they _should_ do, but often do not. Or if they do run tests, the tests are often flaky and often very expensive due to how long it can take to run. And while there are often ideals of complete code coverage, the realities of business and deadlines often take precedence and the tests are left unwritten, or worse, ignored when errors are being reported because they are not reliable. Not only does Cypress make sure that your tests will be reliable, but it provides developers with tools that make e2e testing an asset to development rather than a hindrance.

### Interact with your tests in a browser

> When Protractor runs tests, the browser automation launches a browser instance and often runs through tests too fast for the human eye. Without additional configuration, this often leads to a reliance on lengthy terminal errors that can be expensive from a context-switching perspective.

Author: I agree, good idea

Having your code editor and application under test within a browser side-by-side (shown below) while re-running tests on save is a highly productive workflow. It provides an instant feedback loop that allows you to iterate faster with confidence.

<DocsVideo src="/img/guides/migrating-to-cypress/Auto-reloading.mp4" title="auto-reloading"></DocsVideo>

### Time travel through tests

The Cypress Test Runner gives you time travel capabilities to see exactly how your app was behaving at any point during test execution. Cypress takes DOM snapshots of your application under test as the Test Runner executes the commands and assertions in your tests. This enables you to view the **real UI** of your application at any point during your tests' execution. By clicking from one command to another in the [command log](/guides/core-concepts/test-runner#Command-Log), you can see which elements Cypress acted upon and how your application responded to the simulated **real user behavior**.

<DocsVideo src="/img/guides/migrating-to-cypress/interactivity.mp4" title="Time travel debugging"></DocsVideo>

## Getting Started

### Recommended Installation

> We recommend using our [official Cypress Angular schematic](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/tree/master/npm/cypress-schematic#readme) to add Cypress to your Angular project:

Reviewer: @matthamil do we want to update the schematic link to go to npm? (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@cypress/schematic)

Author: Can do!

Author: My only thought on linking to the `npm` page is that the following links in this paragraph (i.e. links to [this](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/tree/master/npm/cypress-schematic#running-the-builder-with-a-specific-browser) and [this](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/tree/master/npm/cypress-schematic#recording-test-results-to-the-cypress-dashboard)) can't be directly linked to on the `npm` page since those headers lack an ID. Those links don't really need to be consistent though.

Author: I'll just change the first link to the npm page and keep the others in this paragraph the same

```shell
ng add @cypress/schematic
```

This will install Cypress, add scripts for running Cypress in `run` and `open` mode, scaffold base Cypress files and directories, and (optional) prompt you to remove Protractor and reconfigure the default `ng e2e` command to use Cypress.

> With our schematic installed, you can run Cypress with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our schematic installed and Protractor removed, you can run Cypress in `open` mode with the following command:
```

```shell
ng e2e
```

> If you are still using Protractor, your `ng e2e` command might already be running your Protractor tests. You can also use the following command to start Cypress:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the following command to start Cypress in `open` mode:
```

```shell
ng run {your-project-name}:cypress-open
```

Both of these commands will launch the Cypress Test Runner in an Electron browser.

> You can also run Cypress headlessly in the Electron browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also launch Cypress via `run` mode, which runs headlessly in the Electron browser:
```

// Get the attribute of an element
// Example: Get the value of an input
element(by.css('input')).getAttribute('value')
```

<Badge type="success">After: Cypress</Badge>

```js
// Click on the element
cy.get('button').click()

// Send keys to the element (usually an input)
cy.get('input').type('my text')

// Clear the text in an element (usually an input)
cy.get('input').clear()

// Get the attribute of an element
// Example: Get the value of an input
cy.get('input').its('value')
```

<Alert type="info">

You can learn more about [interacting with DOM elements in our official documentation](/guides/core-concepts/interacting-with-elements.html).

</Alert>

### Assertions

Similar to Protractor, Cypress enables use of human readable assertions.

<Badge type="danger">Before: Protractor</Badge>

```js
describe('verify elements on a page', () => {
  it('verifies that a link is visible', () => {
    expect($('a.submit-link').isDisplayed()).toBe(true)
  })
})
```

<Badge type="success">After: Cypress</Badge>

```js
describe('verify elements on a page', () => {
  it('verifies that a link is visible', () => {
    cy.get('a.submit-link').should('be.visible')
  })
})
```

> But Cypress has one additional feature that can make a critical difference in the reliability of your tests' assertions: [retry-ability](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability). When your test fails an assertion or command, Cypress will mimic a real user with build-in wait times and multiple attempts at asserting your tests in order to minimize the amount of false negatives / positives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cypress has one additional feature that can make a critical difference in the reliability of your tests' assertions: [retry-ability](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability). When your test fails an assertion or command, Cypress will mimic a real user with build-in wait times and multiple attempts at asserting your tests in order to minimize the amount of false negatives / positives.
```

```js
// Click on the element
// This code looks synchronous!
element(by.css('button')).click()

// Send keys to the element (usually an input)
element(by.css('input')).sendKeys('my text')
```

Protractor's Control Flow can be disabled, allowing you to write your test cases as asynchronous functions.

```js
// Wait for the button to be found and click it
await element(by.css('button')).click()

// Wait for the input to be found and type into the field
await element(by.css('input')).sendKeys('my text')
```

Cypress commands are similar at first glance. Cypress commands are [not invoked immediately](/guides/core-concepts/introduction-to-cypress#Commands-Are-Asynchronous) and are enqueued to run at a later time. Cypress might look like promises, but the [Cypress API is not an exact implementation of Promises](/guides/core-concepts/introduction-to-cypress#Commands-Are-Not-Promises). The Control Flow example rewritten as a Cypress test would look something like this:

```js
// Click on the element
cy.get('button').click()

// Send keys to the element (usually an input)
cy.get('input').type('my text')
```

## Automatic Retrying and Waiting

> Web applications are usually rarely synchronous. With Protractor, you may be accustomed to adding arbitrary timeouts or using the [waitForAngular](https://www.protractortest.org/#/api?view=ProtractorBrowser.prototype.waitForAngular) API to wait for Angular to finish rendering before attempting to interact with an element. With Cypress, commands that query the DOM are [automatically retried](/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability). Cypress will automatically wait and retry most commands until an element appears in the DOM. If an element is not [actionable](/guides/core-concepts/interacting-with-elements#Actionability) within the [`defaultCommandTimeout`](/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability#Timeouts) setting, the command will fail. This enables you to write tests without the need for arbitrary timeouts, enabling you to write more predictable tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web applications are usually rarely synchronous. With Protractor, you may be accustomed to adding arbitrary timeouts or using the [waitForAngular](https://www.protractortest.org/#/api?view=ProtractorBrowser.prototype.waitForAngular) API to wait for Angular to finish rendering before attempting to interact with an element.  

With Cypress, commands that query the DOM are [automatically retried](/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability). Cypress will automatically wait and retry most commands until an element appears in the DOM. If an element is not [actionable](/guides/core-concepts/interacting-with-elements#Actionability) within the [`defaultCommandTimeout`](/guides/core-concepts/retry-ability#Timeouts) setting, the command will fail. This enables you to write tests without the need for arbitrary timeouts, enabling you to write more predictable tests.
```

})
```

<Badge type="success">After: Cypress</Badge>

```js
it('visit a non-Angular page', () => {
  cy.visit('/about')
})
```

<Alert type="info">

For more information, check out our [official documentation on navigation](https://example.cypress.io/commands/navigation)!

</Alert>

## Using Page Objects

A common pattern when writing end-to-end tests, especially with Protractor, is [Page Objects](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/PageObjects). Page Objects can simplify your test code by creating reusable methods if you find yourself writing the same test code across multiple test cases.

### Protractor without Page Objects

```js
// Type into username field
element(by.css('.username')).sendKeys('my username')
// Type into password field
element(by.css('.password')).sendKeys('my password')
// Click the login button
element(by.css('button')).click()
```

### Protractor with Page Objects

```js
const page = {
  login: () => {
    element(by.css('.username')).sendKeys('my username')
    element(by.css('.password')).sendKeys('my password')
    element(by.css('button')).click()
  },
}

it('should display the username of a logged in user', () => {
  page.login()

>   expect(by.css('.user').getText()).toEqual('my username')

Reviewer: @matthamil should the selector here be `.username`?

### Gain Visibility in Headless Mode with Screenshots and Videos

Running browser tests in headless mode (locally or in continuous integration pipeline) can be a bit of a black-box without much visibility. When tests fail, error messages by themselves can often fall short in painting the picture of **why** something failed, especially if assertions were not explicit enough or too indirect. To understand the reason behind test failures it also helps to see the state of the app UI at the point of failure or see the events that led up to the failure.

Cypress assists with debugging in headless mode, by automatically taking a screenshot of the app UI and command log at the exact point of test failure. To help see everything that happened prior to test failure, Cypress provides a video recording (as an MP4 file) of a full test spec run by default.

## Parallelization

> One of the worst things that can happen to a developer is to be forced to wait for a 2 hour end-to-end test suite to before verifying something works or not. Instead, the [Cypress Dashboard Service](/guides/dashboard/introduction) allows your tests to run in parallel. If your longest test only test a minute to run, this means that you've just cut down your testing by over 12,000%!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the worst things that can happen to a developer is to be forced to wait for a 2-hour end-to-end test suite to before verifying something works or not. Instead, the [Cypress Dashboard Service](/guides/dashboard/introduction) allows your tests to run in parallel. If your longest test only takes a minute to run, this means that you've just cut down your testing by over 12,000%!
```

> This feature is available in Protractor and requires you to configure your application with multiple options (i.e., `sharedTestFiles`, `maxInstances`, etc.). With Protractor your tests can be parallelized on a per-test basis. With Cypress, your tests can be [parallelized on a per spec file basis](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/parallelization). This is an important distinction between Protractor and Cypress parallelization. One of the reasons why Cypress parallelizes tests per file because some users may write tests that build up state that subsequent tests, although we [do not recommend relying on the state of previous tests](/guides/references/best-practices#Having-tests-rely-on-the-state-of-previous-tests).

Reviewer: ### ### 
```suggestion
This feature is available in Protractor and requires you to configure your application with multiple options (i.e., `sharedTestFiles`, `maxInstances`, etc.). With Protractor your tests can be parallelized on a per-test basis. With Cypress, your tests can be [parallelized on a per spec file basis](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/parallelization). This is an important distinction between Protractor and Cypress parallelization. One of the reasons why Cypress parallelizes tests per file is because some users may write tests that build up state that subsequent tests, although we [do not recommend relying on the state of previous tests](/guides/references/best-practices#Having-tests-rely-on-the-state-of-previous-tests).
```

    'https://cloudName.perfectomobile.com/nexperience/perfectomobile/wd/hub',

  // Capabilities to be passed to the webdriver instance.
  capabilities: {
    browserName: 'chrome',

    // allows different specs to run in parallel.
    // If this is set to be true, specs will be sharded by file
    // (i.e. all files to be run by this set of capabilities will run in parallel).
    // Default is false.
    sharedTestFiles: true,

    // Maximum number of browser instances that can run in parallel for this
    // set of capabilities. This is only needed if shardTestFiles is true.
    // Default is 1.
    maxInstances: 2,

    // Cloud capabilities
    user: 'user@perfectomobile.com',
    password: 'password',

    // Device capabilities
    platformName: 'Android',
    manufacturer: 'Samsung',
    model: 'Galaxy S5',
  },

  // Framework to use. Jasmine is recommended.
  framework: 'jasmine',

  // Spec patterns are relative to the current working directly when
  // protractor is called.
  specs: ['spec.js', 'spec2.js'],

  // Options to be passed to Jasmine.
  jasmineNodeOpts: {
    showColors: true,
    defaultTimeoutInterval: 30000,
  },
}
```

**Parallelization with Cypress:**

> However, with Cypress, all you need to do is pass the `--parallel` and `--record` flag to `cypress run`, and it will take care of the rest for you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Cypress, all you need to do is pass the `--parallel` and `--record` flag to `cypress run`, and it will take care of the rest for you:
```

### Recording test results to the Cypress Dashboard

We recommend setting your [Cypress Dashboard](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/dashboard/introduction) recording key as an environment variable and NOT as a builder option when running it in CI.

```json
"cypress-run": {
  "builder": "@cypress/schematic:cypress",
  "options": {
    "devServerTarget": "{project-name}:serve",
    "record": true,
    "key": "your-cypress-dashboard-recording-key"
  },
  "configurations": {
    "production": {
      "devServerTarget": "{project-name}:production"
    }
  }
}
```

Read our docs to learn more about [recording test results](http://on.cypress.io/recording-project-runs) to the [Cypress Dashboard](/guides/dashboard/introduction).

### Specifying a custom `cypress.json` config file

It may be useful to have different Cypress configuration files per environment (ie. development, staging, production).

```json
"cypress-run": {
  "builder": "@cypress/schematic:cypress",
  "options": {
    "devServerTarget": "{project-name}:serve",
    "configFile": "cypress.production.json"
  },
  "configurations": {
    "production": {
      "devServerTarget": "{project-name}:production"
    }
  }
}
```

> Read our docs to learn more about all the [configuration options](http://on.cypress.io/configuration) Cypress offers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Alert type="info">

Read our docs to learn more about all the [configuration options](http://on.cypress.io/configuration) Cypress offers.

</Alert>
```

### Running Cypress in parallel mode within CI

```json
"cypress-run": {
  "builder": "@cypress/schematic:cypress",
  "options": {
    "devServerTarget": "{project-name}:serve",
    "parallel": true,
    "record": true,
    "key": "your-cypress-dashboard-recording-key"
  },
  "configurations": {
    "production": {
      "devServerTarget": "{project-name}:production"
    }
  }
}
```

> Read our docs to learn more about speeding up test execution in CI via [Cypress parallelization](http://on.cypress.io/parallelization)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Alert type="info">

Read our docs to learn more about speeding up test execution in CI via [Cypress parallelization](http://on.cypress.io/parallelization)

</Alert>
```
